Business Understanding, Executive Summary, 

Business Understanding:
The current loan approval process is done manually by individuals at FinTech. This leads to slower response time to loan applicants and can also lead to inconsistent decisions due to different individuals reviewing loans. 
Each inappropriate loan given, or not given, leads to money lost by FinTech. If a loan is declined for someone who was credit worth and should have been approved, FinTech profit is down by 8k. 
If a loan is approved for an applicant who should have been denied, the average loss is 50k. This makes the CFO and other officials in the company key stakeholders as it directly impacts the profit and/or loss of the company. 
Also the loan approvers are key stakeholders as they will be using the model to make final decisions on loans and be communicating with the customers.


There are different types of model errors which can be useful in these scenarios. Recall will allow for more false negatives. Meaning that you will be able to get more customers approved, adding 8K to the profit. 
Precision focuses on false positives. So precision is important to minimize the number of false positives, meaning it'll minimize the number of 50k loss the company takes. 
Accuracy takes into account both false positives and false negatives and tries to make the model as accurate as possible as the name would describe. 
F1-score is the score that finds the balance between precision and recall. Given the impact of approving bad loans, precision would be more important in this scenario as it leads to a bigger loss by the company.  
And you want to find a good balance with Recall as you don't want to miss too many loans which should have been approved.


The model choice between categorical (approved, denied) and regressional (risk score) is a business decision. Whether you would want the final say to be by the model making it more consistent, but also could miss info not present in the data. 
Or would you want the final decision to be by an employee who reviews the risk score and makes final decision. Both approches would suffice.  
But since the goal is to standardize loan approval process, rather than having an employee make the final decision, a classification model would fit best for complete standardization in the scenario.





Executive Summary:
In summary, we found to standardize loan approval it is best to create a model that most accurately predicts whether a customer should be approved or not.  
Every model will have variance, and if we are predicting risk scores for individual customers, it still becomes a manual job in the end and due to user input of final approval could still lead to more missed data.
With this being said, the best model we found was a Logistical Regression model which take the input from the data file and predicts whether the customer should be approved or denied for a loan.

We tested many models (Logistic Regression, Support Vector, XGBoost, Random Forest) with various metrics (Accuracy, Precision, Recall, F1-Score, custom score) in order to determine which model would fit the best.
Some models clearly performed better than others, while others were both pretty equal in outcome.  What we found was that Logistical Regression using a custom made scoring technique worked the best.
Our custom score was made by weighting precision and recall together.  80% weight was given to precision, and 20% was given to recall.  We found the 80/20 split worked the best after testing multiple options. 
We weight more on precision, since approving loans that should have been declined have a higher (50k) impact on the business, rather than missing loans that should have been approved (8k missed).

The model performs well on the data given. Here are the performance metrics of the model using an 80% training, 20% testing split.
Accuracy: 96.23%
Precision: 93.83%
Recall: 91.15%
F1-score: 92.47%

Using the 80% training, 20% testing split, the model predicted on the test data that the company would have still lost some money since it is not 100% accurate.  The money lost is below:
Inaccurate Approvals: 61 loans @ $50k = $3,050,000
Missed Approvals: 90 loans @ $8k = $720,000
Total Money Lost: $3,770,000

The model on the test data has about a 5% inaccuracy rate.


Potential Improvements:
- Some of the data in the file was missing and we used the median value for that column, which could have lead to some misinterpretations.  Having consistent and accurate data would help this process.
- 
